Rule:  

Sid:
1079

--

Summary:
This event is generated when an attempt is made to use the
PROPFIND WebDAV request method on a web server.

--
Impact:
Information gathering. An attacker can get a directory listing for all 
directories configured to support WebDAV in an Apache web server. This
could by a prelude to a more serious attack.

--
Detailed Information:
WebDAV is a web publishing protocol implemented by several web servers,
including Apache.  Certain configurations of Apache, such as those in
SuSE 6.0-7.0 and RedHat 6.2-7.0, have WebDAV enabled and misconfigured
in such a way to allow directory listings of the entire server file
structure -- specificially, WebDAV was enabled on the Document Root of
the web server.  Since subdirectories of a WebDAV-enabled directory
are automatically enabled as well, this caused the entire web server
to have WebDAV enabled.

Since a directory, or its parent directory, must have been 
specifically declared for WebDAV to be enabled, configuration errors
should be straightforward to find and correct.

--
Affected Systems:
	Apache Web Server with WebDAV enabled and misconfigured.
 
--
Attack Scenarios:
Attacker gets a listing by sending something like:
PROPFIND / HTTP/1.1

--
Ease of Attack:
Simple. Requires that the attacker hand-craft an HTTP request.

--
False Positives:
Legitimate web publishers may use PROPFIND commands, this should not be
allowed from resources external to the protected network.

--
False Negatives:
None Known

--
Corrective Action:
Examine the packet to determine whether this was likely an attack or not.
Try to determine whether this was from a legitimate web publisher or not.
Try to determine whether the target web server was Apache with WebDAV
enabled and misconfigured.

Disallow this method of publishing from resources external to the
protected network.

--
Contributors:
Original rule writer unknown
Original document author unkown
Sourcefire Vulnerability Research Team
Nigel Houghton <nigel.houghton@sourcefire.com>

--
Additional References:

--
