Rule:

--
Sid:
1334

--
Summary:
Attempted echo command access via web

--
Impact:
Attempt to gain system environment information or an attempt to post
information on the host using the echo command.

--
Detailed Information:
This rule generates an event when a UNIX "echo" command is used over a
plain-text (unencrypted) connection on one of the specified web ports to
the target web server. The "echo" command may be used to modify the
content of arbitrary files by means of shell output redirection.

The rule looks for the "echo" command in the client to web server
network traffic and does not indicate whether the command was actually
successful. The presence of the "echo" command web traffic indicates
that an attacker attempted to trick the web server into executing system
commands in non-interactive mode i.e. without a valid shell session. 

Alternatively this rule may generate an event in an unencrypted HTTP
tunneling connection to the server or a shell connection via another
exploit against the web server.

This may also be an attempt to gain intelligence about the environment
variables on a webserver. echo is a built-in shell command that will
return information about the system's environment variables. This
information is valuable to an attacker who can use it to plan further
attacks based on the information returned.

--
Attack Scenarios:
1. The attacker can make a standard HTTP request that contains
'/bin/echo' in the URI which can then return sensitive information on
system environment variables present on the host.  This command may also
be requested on a command line should the attacker gain access to the machine.

2. An attacker uses a "echo" command via a web server connection to add
"+ +" to a corresponding ".rhosts" file which controls access
permissions to the system via r-commands

--
Ease of Attack:
Simple HTTP request.

--
False Positives:
None Known

--
False Negatives:
None Known

--
Corrective Action:

Webservers should not be allowed to view or execute files and binaries
outside of it's designated web root or cgi-bin. 

--
Contributors:
Sourcefire Research Team
Brian Caswell <bmc@sourcefire.com>
Nigel Houghton <nigel.houghton@sourcefire.com>
Additional information from Anton Chuvakin <http://www.chuvakin.org>

-- 
Additional References:

man echo

--
