Rule: 

--
Sid: 
3015
-- 
Summary: 
This event is generated when an attempt is made to request a connection on port 2000 using the Insane Network 4.0 trojan.

-- 

Impact: 
If connected, the attacker could remotetly execute a multitude of functions resulting in a full compromise of the victim's machine.

--
Detailed Information:
Insane Network 4.0 uses port 2000 as its default, but -2000, or port 63536, incarnations also exist.
Insane Network 4.0 has a number of functions. The following strings are indicative of a particular Insane Network 4.0 attack.
Be aware that some versions of Insane Network 4.0 will send their attack strings one letter at a time. For example,
to send the bomb command, some versions will send only one letter per packet, resulting in bomb being spelled out in multiple packets.

Format: Name of function (Description of what it does *only if necessary*) - string to look for

Bomb ("Bombs" monitor) - bomb
Snow (Makes monitor snowy) - snow
Melt ("Melts" the screen) - melt
Reverse (Reverses screen) - reverse
Copy File - cp followed by a file name and the destination path
Ctrl-Alt-Del (Enable/Disable Ctrl-Alt-Del) - cad -e (for enable) cad -d (for disable)
Delete File - rm followed by a file name, including path
File List - ls followed by directory
File Sharing (Gets shared file password information) - share
Dial-Up Passwords (Get Dial-up password information) - passwd
Make Text File - mktext
Popup Message - popup
Read File - cat followed by a file name, including path
Reboot - reboot
Registry Edit - regrun
Rename File - ren followed by a file and its new name
Run File - exec followed by a file name, including path
Shutdown - shutdown
Taskbar (Enable/Disable Task Bar) - task -e (for enable) tast -d (for disable)
Telnet - telnet

--
Affected Systems:
Windows 95/98/ME/NT/2000

--

Attack Scenarios: 
The victim must first install the server. Be wary of suspicious files because they often can be backdoors in disguise.
Once the victim mistakenly installs the server program, the attacker usually will employ an IP scanner program
to find the IP addresses of victims that have installed the program. Then the attacker enters the IP address, port number (which 
is assigned to the server program by the attacker: default is 2000), and presses the connect button and he has access to your computer.

-- 

Ease of Attack: 
Easy. Simply a matter of pressing the connect button once the victim has installed the server.


-- 

False Positives:
None known

--
False Negatives:
None known

-- 

Corrective Action: 
Remove insane network.exe and commands.txt
Kill insane network.exe in the process list

Keep your anti-virus software updated with the latest virus definitions.

--
Contributors:
Original Rule Writer: Ricky Macatee <rmacatee@sourcefire.com> 
Sourcefire Research Team

-- 
Additional References:
http://www.pestpatrol.com/PestInfo/i/insane_network.asp


--
